index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
tagline: University of Washington
---

![Me]({{ site.url }}/img/jakeface2.jpg){: width=160 height=213 class="img-rounded" style="float: right; margin-left: 10px;"}

I am a postdoc in the department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Washington. I was formerly a grad student in the [Sampa](http://sampa.cs.washington.edu) research group at UW CSE; I completed my Ph.D. in December 2014 under the supervision of [Luis Ceze](http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/luisceze/), [Mark Oskin](http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/oskin), and [Simon Kahan](http://www.systemsbiology.org/simon-kahan).

I work at the intersection of computer architecture and systems. I explore how software and hardware can be built to make applications in big data and high-performance computing faster and more efficient. My primary project right now is [Grappa](http://grappa.io), a runtime system designed to improve the performance of data-intensive and irregular applications on commodity clusters. I have also worked in approximate computing, deterministic parallel computing, and speculative multithreading.

I'm on the job market! I'm looking for opportunities in industry to do research and advanced development for faster, more efficient large-scale systems. 

[My CV](pubs/jacob-nelson-cv.pdf) and [research statement](pubs/jacob-nelson-research-statement.pdf)

[My Thesis](pubs/jacob-nelson-thesis.pdf)

Publications
------------

- **[Latency-Tolerant Software Distributed Shared Memory](https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc15/technical-session/presentation/nelson)**. J. Nelson, B. Holt, B. Myers, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. Best paper at *USENIX ATC*, July 2015.

- **Scalable Adaptive Label Propagation in Grappa**. G. Farnadi, Z. Mahdavifar, I. Keller, J. Nelson, A. Teredesai, M.-F. Moens, M. De Cock. Special Session on Intelligent Mining, *IEEE Big Data 2015*, October 2015.
  
- **Using the Parallel Research Kernels to Study PGAS Runtimes**. R. Van der Wijngaart, S. Sridharan, A. Kayi, G. Jost, J. Hammond, T. Mattson, J. Nelson. *International Conference on PGAS Programming Models (PGAS)*, September 2015.

- **A 10G NetFPGA Prototype for In-Network Aggregation**. V. Lee, J. Nelson, M. Oskin, L. Ceze. *Workshop on Architectural Research Prototyping (WARP w/ISCA)*, June 2015.

- **[SNNAP: Approximate Computing on Programmable SoCs via Neural Acceleration](http://sampa.cs.washington.edu/papers/snnap-hpca2015.pdf)**. T. Moreau, M. Wyse, J. Nelson, A. Sampson, H. Esmaeilzadeh, L. Ceze, M. Oskin. In *[HPCA 2015](http://darksilicon.org/hpca/)*.

- **[Radish: Compiling Efficient Query Plans for Distributed Shared Memory](ftp://ftp.cs.washington.edu/tr/2014/10/UW-CSE-14-10-01.pdf)**. B. Myers, D. Halperin, J. Nelson, M. Oskin, B. Howe. *UW CSE Tech Report 14-10-01*, 2014.

- **[Grappa: A Latency-Tolerant Runtime for Large-Scale Irregular Applications](http://sampa.cs.washington.edu/papers/grappa-wrsc-2014.pdf)**. J. Nelson, B. Holt, B. Myers, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. *[International Workshop on Rack-Scale Computing (WRSC w/EuroSys)](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/events/wrsc2014/)*, April 2014.

- **[Approximate Storage in Solid-State Memories](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~asampson/media/papers/approxstorage-micro2013.pdf)**. A. Sampson, J. Nelson, K. Strauss, L. Ceze. In *[MICRO 2013](http://www.microarch.org/micro46/)*. Selected to appear as an expanded version in [ACM TOCS](http://tocs.acm.org/).

- **[Flat Combining Synchronized Global Data Structures](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~bholt/pubs/holt-pgas13.pdf)**. B. Holt, J. Nelson, B. Myers, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. *[7th International Conference on PGAS Programming Models (PGAS)](http://www.pgas2013.org.uk/)*, October 2013.

- **[Crunching large graphs with commodity processors](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/event/hotpar11/tech/final_files/Nelson.pdf)**. J. Nelson, B. Myers, A. H. Hunter, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, C. Ebeling, D. Grossman, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. In *[HOTPAR 2011](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/events/hotpar11/index.html)*.

- **[RCDC: A Relaxed Consistency Deterministic Computer](http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/devietti/papers/devietti.rcdc.asplos.2011.pdf)**. J. Devietti, J. Nelson, T. Bergan, L. Ceze, D. Grossman. In *[ASPLOS 2011](http://asplos11.cs.ucr.edu/)*.

- **[Dynamic Concurrency Discovery for Very Large Windows of Execution](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~nelson/Nelson-ConcurrencyDiscovery-PESPMA2009.pdf)**. J. Nelson, L. Ceze. In *PESPMA 2009*.

Commit message:

update with latest cv/resume

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
tagline: University of Washington
---

![Me]({{ site.url }}/img/jakeface2.jpg){: width=160 height=213 class="img-rounded" style="float: right; margin-left: 10px;"}

I am a postdoc in the department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Washington. I was formerly a grad student in the [Sampa](http://sampa.cs.washington.edu) research group at UW CSE; I completed my Ph.D. in December 2014 under the supervision of [Luis Ceze](http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/luisceze/), [Mark Oskin](http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/oskin), and [Simon Kahan](http://www.systemsbiology.org/simon-kahan).

I work at the intersection of computer architecture and systems. I explore how software and hardware can be built to make applications in big data and high-performance computing faster and more efficient. My primary project right now is [Grappa](http://grappa.io), a runtime system designed to improve the performance of data-intensive and irregular applications fon commodity clusters. I have also worked in approximate computing, deterministic parallel computing, and speculative multithreading.

I'm on the job market! I'm looking for opportunities in industry to do research and advanced development for faster, more efficient large-scale systems. 

[My CV](pubs/jacob-nelson-cv.pdf)/[resume](pubs/jacob-nelson-resume.pdf) and [research statement](pubs/jacob-nelson-research-statement.pdf)

[My Thesis](pubs/jacob-nelson-thesis.pdf)

Publications
------------

- **[Latency-Tolerant Software Distributed Shared Memory](https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc15/technical-session/presentation/nelson)**. J. Nelson, B. Holt, B. Myers, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. Best paper at *USENIX ATC*, July 2015.

- **Comparing Runtime Systems with Exascale Ambitions Using the Parallel Research Kernels**. R. Van der Wijngaart, A. Kayi, J. Hammond, T. Mattson, G. Jost, T. St. John, S. Sridharan, J. Abercrombie, J. Nelson. To appear in *International Conference on Supercomputing (ISC)*, June 2016.

- **Scalable Adaptive Label Propagation in Grappa**. G. Farnadi, Z. Mahdavifar, I. Keller, J. Nelson, A. Teredesai, M.-F. Moens, M. De Cock. Special Session on Intelligent Mining, *IEEE Big Data 2015*, October 2015.
  
- **Using the Parallel Research Kernels to Study PGAS Runtimes**. R. Van der Wijngaart, S. Sridharan, A. Kayi, G. Jost, J. Hammond, T. Mattson, J. Nelson. *International Conference on PGAS Programming Models (PGAS)*, September 2015.

- **A 10G NetFPGA Prototype for In-Network Aggregation**. V. Lee, J. Nelson, M. Oskin, L. Ceze. *Workshop on Architectural Research Prototyping (WARP w/ISCA)*, June 2015.

- **[SNNAP: Approximate Computing on Programmable SoCs via Neural Acceleration](http://sampa.cs.washington.edu/papers/snnap-hpca2015.pdf)**. T. Moreau, M. Wyse, J. Nelson, A. Sampson, H. Esmaeilzadeh, L. Ceze, M. Oskin. In *[HPCA 2015](http://darksilicon.org/hpca/)*.

- **[Radish: Compiling Efficient Query Plans for Distributed Shared Memory](ftp://ftp.cs.washington.edu/tr/2014/10/UW-CSE-14-10-01.pdf)**. B. Myers, D. Halperin, J. Nelson, M. Oskin, B. Howe. *UW CSE Tech Report 14-10-01*, 2014.

- **[Grappa: A Latency-Tolerant Runtime for Large-Scale Irregular Applications](http://sampa.cs.washington.edu/papers/grappa-wrsc-2014.pdf)**. J. Nelson, B. Holt, B. Myers, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. *[International Workshop on Rack-Scale Computing (WRSC w/EuroSys)](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/events/wrsc2014/)*, April 2014.

- **[Approximate Storage in Solid-State Memories](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~asampson/media/papers/approxstorage-micro2013.pdf)**. A. Sampson, J. Nelson, K. Strauss, L. Ceze. In *[MICRO 2013](http://www.microarch.org/micro46/)*. Selected to appear as an expanded version in [ACM TOCS](http://tocs.acm.org/).

- **[Flat Combining Synchronized Global Data Structures](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~bholt/pubs/holt-pgas13.pdf)**. B. Holt, J. Nelson, B. Myers, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. *[7th International Conference on PGAS Programming Models (PGAS)](http://www.pgas2013.org.uk/)*, October 2013.

- **[Crunching large graphs with commodity processors](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/event/hotpar11/tech/final_files/Nelson.pdf)**. J. Nelson, B. Myers, A. H. Hunter, P. Briggs, L. Ceze, C. Ebeling, D. Grossman, S. Kahan, M. Oskin. In *[HOTPAR 2011](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/events/hotpar11/index.html)*.

- **[RCDC: A Relaxed Consistency Deterministic Computer](http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/devietti/papers/devietti.rcdc.asplos.2011.pdf)**. J. Devietti, J. Nelson, T. Bergan, L. Ceze, D. Grossman. In *[ASPLOS 2011](http://asplos11.cs.ucr.edu/)*.

- **[Dynamic Concurrency Discovery for Very Large Windows of Execution](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~nelson/Nelson-ConcurrencyDiscovery-PESPMA2009.pdf)**. J. Nelson, L. Ceze. In *PESPMA 2009*.
